Editorial review: Document meta text-scale and env(preferred-text-scale) (#43766)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/html/reference/elements/meta/name/text-scale/index.md

## Description

The `<meta name="text-scale" content="scale">` element can be included in a page to make the {{htmlelement("html")}} root element's `font-size` scale in proportion to OS and browser-level text scale settings. In practice, this means that in supporting browsers, provided you don't set a root `font-size` in units unrelated to font size (like pixels or viewport units), relative `font-size` settings such as `2em` or `1rem` will be scaled in proportion to user OS or browser font size settings.

This means that you can signal to the browser that the page is sized in a way that will scale well across various user-selected font size preferences. It also causes the browser to disable existing browser-based mechanisms and heuristics.

For example:

- In Chrome for Android, `rem` and `em` font sizes will scale in proportion to the global OS "Font size" setting. Text autosizing is disabled.
- In Chrome for desktop, the [`env(preferred-text-scale)`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Reference/Values/env#preferred-text-scale) environment variable will reflect the multiplier that corresponds to Chrome's Settings > Appearance > Font size, but other than that, it has no discernable effect.

> - In Chrome for Windows, in addition to the above point, full-page zoom is disabled.

Reviewer: This is not yet true, apologies. We shipped meta without having done this, but we hope to do it later this year.

Author: OK, good to know. I've removed this bit and any other mention of full-page zoom for now.

browser-compat: html.elements.meta.name.text-scale
sidebar: htmlsidebar
---

The **`text-scale`** value for the [`name`](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Reference/Elements/meta/name) attribute of a {{htmlelement("meta")}} element enables opting the page in to having the {{htmlelement("html")}} root element's {{cssxref("font-size")}} scale in proportion to OS and browser-level text scale settings.

## Usage notes

A `<meta name="text-scale">` element has the following additional attributes:

- [`content`](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Reference/Elements/meta#content)
  - : Specifies the {{cssxref("font-size")}} scale opt-in behavior.
    Its value is a keyword, which can be one of the following:
    - `scale`
      - : Opts the page in to having the {{htmlelement("html")}} root element's {{cssxref("font-size")}} scale in proportion to OS and browser-level text scale settings. It also causes the browser to disable existing browser-based mechanisms and heuristics (for example, text autosizing on mobile).
    - `legacy`
      - : The default value. The page is not opted in to the root element's `font-size` scaling in proportion to OS and browser-level text scale settings.

## Description

> The `<meta name="text-scale" content="scale">` element can be included in a page to make the {{htmlelement("html")}} root element's `font-size` scale in proportion to OS and browser-level text scale settings. In practice, this means that in supporting browsers, provided you don't set a root `font-size` in units unrelated to font size (like pixels or viewport units), relative `font-size` settings such as `2em` or `1rem` will be scaled in proportion to user OS or browser font size settings.

Reviewer 2: > to make the {{htmlelement("html")}} root element's `font-size` scale in proportion to OS and browser-level text scale settings.

I don't know if you want to mention this detail, but it's not actually changing the root element's font-size. It's changing the value of `font-size: medium`. And `medium` happens to be the initial value of the `font-size` property, which is why it affects the root font-size.

That also means if I do this:

```css
p {
  font-size: medium /* or `initial` */;
}
```

... then all my paragraph elements also get the scaled up font-size.

So when referring to this concept, I tend to just talk about 'the initial font size' or 'the default font size'.

Author: Great details, thanks. I've updated the instances of "root element's `font-size`" to "root element's initial `font-size`", and I've included the above details in the description section.

Recommended usage is to:

1. Include `<meta name="text-scale" content="scale" />` in your page.

> 2. Not override the default {{cssxref(":root")}} `font-size`.

Reviewer 2: Specifically, don't override it with an absolute length value like `16px`. If someone wanted to do the old `font-size: 62.5%` trick, that's still OK.

Author: I've added this detail to the bullet.

I didn't think it was worth mentioning the `62.5%` thing, as I wasn't sure if people still do that so much.

> 3. Use only `em`/`rem` units or keywords such as `small`, `x-large`, etc. to size content.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. Use only font-relative units such as `em`/`rem` or keywords such as `small`, `x-large`, etc. to size content.
```

Author: updated; thanks!

   Avoid including both these features as this may result in text scaling being applied twice, with small font sizes being smaller and large font sizes being larger.

This means that you can signal to the browser that the page is sized in a way that will scale well across various user-selected font size preferences. It also causes the browser to disable existing browser-based mechanisms and heuristics.

For example:

- In Chrome for Android, `rem` and `em` font sizes will scale in proportion to the global OS "Font size" setting. Text autosizing is disabled.
- In Chrome for desktop, the [`env(preferred-text-scale)`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Reference/Values/env#preferred-text-scale) environment variable will reflect the multiplier that corresponds to Chrome's Settings > Appearance > Font size, but other than that, it has no discernable effect.

> [!NOTE]
> The `<meta name="text-scale" content="scale">` element also has other effects in Android Webview: see https://chromium.googlesource.com/chromium/src/+/b29d63222d10f4c7e620d057578d737969eb7ae3.

> ## Examples

Reviewer 2: It might be valuable to give an example showing that `em`/`rem` units in media queries respond to the meta tag as well*. This is really valuable, because often you will want to change your responsive website's layout based on the text scale to fit the larger body text.

*It's important because that wouldn't happen if you changed the root font size using `:root { font-size: calc(100% * env(preferred-text-scale)); }`. [Any relative length units used in media queries are not affected by any changes to the font size in the stylesheet - they are always relative to the initial font size.](https://www.w3.org/TR/mediaqueries-4/#units)

Author: This is a great idea. I've added a media query plus extra explanation to the main example.

I've also added a link allowing you to open it in a separate tab for easier testing.

    - `legacy`
      - : The default value. The page is not opted in to the root element's `font-size` scaling in proportion to OS and browser-level text scale settings.

## Description

The `<meta name="text-scale" content="scale">` element can be included in a page to make the {{htmlelement("html")}} root element's `font-size` scale in proportion to OS and browser-level text scale settings. In practice, this means that in supporting browsers, provided you don't set a root `font-size` in units unrelated to font size (like pixels or viewport units), relative `font-size` settings such as `2em` or `1rem` will be scaled in proportion to user OS or browser font size settings.

This means that you can signal to the browser that the page is sized in a way that will scale well across various user-selected font size preferences. It also causes the browser to disable existing browser-based mechanisms (such as full-page zoom on Windows) and heuristics (for example, text autosizing on mobile).

> Effects of `<meta name="text-scale" content="scale">` on supported browsers:

Reviewer 3: Future proof this.

Author: done

- Chrome for Windows
  - : In addition to the above point, full-page zoom is disabled.

> [!NOTE]
> You can also set page sizes to be proportional to browser or OS-level font settings by using the [`env(preferred-text-scale)`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Reference/Values/env#preferred-text-scale) environment variable to size dimensions. However, unless it is not supported in your target browser set or you are not able to edit the HTML, you are advised to use the `<meta>` tag rather than the `env()` variable. The `<meta>` tag is easier to use, and also has some helpful effects on desktop browsers (`env(preferred-text-scale)` only really has any useful effect on mobile browsers).
>
> You are also advised not to use both — this results in the text scaling unexpectedly, with small font sizes being smaller and large font sizes being larger.

> [!NOTE]
> The `<meta name="text-scale" content="scale">` element also has other effects in Android Webview: see https://chromium.googlesource.com/chromium/src/+/b29d63222d10f4c7e620d057578d737969eb7ae3.

## Examples

### Using meta viewport text-scale

> The following example demonmstrates the basics of using `<meta name="text-scale" content="scale">`.

Reviewer 3: it's always "this example" in the example

```html live-sample___text-scale
<!doctype html>
<html>
  <head>
    <meta name="text-scale" content="scale" />
  </head>
  <body>
    <p class="text-scale">
      This font size obeys the user's font preferences, whether those
      preferences are specified at the operating system level or the user agent
      level.
    </p>
    <p class="fixed">
      This font size does NOT respect the user's font preferences.
      <div class="text-scale">But this font size does!</div>
    </p>
  </body>
</html>
```

#### CSS

Text containers with a `class` of `text-scale` are given a {{cssxref("font-size")}} of `1rem`, which means that in browsers that support `<meta name="text-scale" content="scale">`, that text will scale as the OS/browser font settings are changed. Text containers with a `class` of `fixed` are given a `font-size` of `20px`, which means that this text will remain at a fixed size as the OS/browser font settings are changed.

```css live-sample___text-scale
.text-scale {
  font-size: 1rem;
}

.fixed {
  font-size: 20px;
}
```

#### Result

The above code renders like this:

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

{{embedlivesample("text-scale", "100%", "200")}}

> View this in a browser that supports `<meta name="text-scale" content="scale">`, such as Chrome for Android, and try adjusting the OS Font size settings. You'll see that the top and bottom lines of text scale in proportion to those settings, whereas the middle line of text doesn't change size.

Reviewer 3: future proof.

Author: done

## Specifications

{{Specifications}}

## Browser compatibility

{{Compat}}

## See also

- {{glossary("viewport")}} glossary term
- [Prepare for viewport resize behavior changes coming to Chrome on Android](https://developer.chrome.com/blog/viewport-resize-behavior/) on developer.chrome.com

> - [Mobile viewports for responsive experiences](https://experienceleague.adobe.com/en/docs/target/using/experiences/vec/mobile-viewports) on Adobe Experience League

Reviewer 3: external links are the links followed by "via _site_ (_year_)"

Author: These are the wrong "See also" links; they're leftover from the page I copied as a template. I've updated it to just link to the relevant place in the `env()` page.

---
title: <meta name="text-scale">
short-title: text-scale
slug: Web/HTML/Reference/Elements/meta/name/text-scale
page-type: html-attribute-value
browser-compat: html.elements.meta.name.text-scale
sidebar: htmlsidebar
---

The **`text-scale`** value for the [`name`](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Reference/Elements/meta/name) attribute of a {{htmlelement("meta")}} element enables opting the page in to having the {{htmlelement("html")}} root element's initial {{cssxref("font-size")}} scale in proportion to OS and browser-level text scale settings.

## Usage notes

A `<meta name="text-scale">` element has the following additional attributes:

- [`content`](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Reference/Elements/meta#content)
  - : Specifies the {{cssxref("font-size")}} scale opt-in behavior.
    Its value is a keyword, which can be one of the following:
    - `scale`
      - : Opts the page in to having the {{htmlelement("html")}} root element's initial {{cssxref("font-size")}} scale in proportion to OS and browser-level text scale settings. It also causes the browser to disable existing browser-based mechanisms and heuristics (for example, text autosizing on mobile).
    - `legacy`

>       - : The default value. The page is not opted in to the root element's `font-size` scaling in proportion to OS and browser-level text scale settings.

Reviewer 3: the spec reads: "The [preferred-text-scale](https://drafts.csswg.org/css-env-1/#valdef-env-preferred-text-scale) environment variable returns the user’s OS-level font factor on mobile devices, but 1 on desktop devices. [text scale factor](https://drafts.csswg.org/css-fonts-5/#text-scale-factor) incorporates UA-level font preferences but OS-level font preferences are ignored." incorporate that here.

Reviewer: In case not obvious: the browser treats "legacy" as if the meta tag was not included at all. Said another way, these all result in the same behavior:

* `<meta name="text-scale" content="legacy" />`
* `<meta name="text-scale" content="lorem-lhk7sf" />`
* `<!-- blank line -->`

So, while you can surely parrot what the spec says, it's just describing pre-existing browser behavior, as opposed to behavior that `legacy` enables.

Reviewer 3: You are correct. The description of the value should be minimal, but the text of the reference page should explain what happens by default. The spec's content should be in the description..

Author: This is a difficult one. I thought about it a bit and ended up changing the description to

> The default value. The page is not opted in to the root element's `font-size` scaling in proportion to OS and browser-level text scale settings. This has the same effect as not including the `<meta>` element at all (OS-level font preferences are ignored.)

The scaling stuff seems unhelpful and contradictory: "returns the user’s OS-level font factor" seems to contradict "OS-level font preferences are ignored" at first glance. Not sure what else I should write here.

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- `media` {{optional_inline}}
  - : Any valid media type or query.
    If provided, the options for the document's text-scale defined in the `content` attribute are suggested to the browser when the media query matches.

```

Reviewer: I'm not sure what this means, especially the "suggested to the browser" part. But if Chris does, and he knows it's accurate, then just ignore me here.

Author: I'm not sure what this means either. Where have you got this from, @estelle?

If you are referring to https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Reference/Elements/meta#media, the page says that's only relevant to `theme-color` `<meta>` elements.

Reviewer 3: did not see that.I thought it was global to all meta. TIL. Thanks.

## Description

> The `<meta name="text-scale" content="scale">` element can be included in a page to make the {{htmlelement("html")}} root element's initial `font-size` scale in proportion to OS and browser-level text scale settings. Specifically, it causes the value of `font-size: medium` to be changed in proportion to these text scale settings, and `font-size: medium` is the property's initial value.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The `<meta name="text-scale" content="scale">` element can be included in a document's  {{htmlelement("head")}}, to make the {{htmlelement("html")}} root element's initial `font-size` scale in proportion to OS and browser-level text scale settings. Specifically, it defines the value of `font-size: medium` to be proportional to these text scale settings.
```

> In practice, this means that in supporting browsers, provided you don't set a root `font-size` in units unrelated to font size (like pixels or viewport units), relative `font-size` settings such as keywords (like `medium`) or `em`s/`rem`s will be scaled in proportion to user OS or browser font size settings.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The {{cssxref("initial")}} value of the root {{cssxref("font-size")}} is `medium`, which defines the {{cssxref("rem")}} unit's value. Provided you set or allow the root `font-size` to default to a [local or root relative `<length>`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Guides/Values_and_units/Numeric_data_types#local_font-relative_lengths) unit, any keyword (like `medium`) or local or root relative length, such a `em` and `rem`, will be scaled in proportion to user OS or browser font size settings.
```

For example, the following rule:

```css
p {
  font-size: medium /* or "initial" */;

> }

Reviewer 3: to avoid important to read comments in code blocks, change the comment to a div set to initial, then change the next sentence to read p and div.

Author: I don't really understand what you mean, so I've removed the comment and mentioned in the next sentence that you can get the same effect by setting `font-size` to `initial`.

Reviewer 3: i'll add code above and edit below, so you can see what I meant. With the edit, the fix is optional, but you might prefer it, so...

```

would result in all {{htmlelement("p")}} elements receiving a scaled font size.

Recommended usage is to:

> 1. Include `<meta name="text-scale" content="scale" />` in your page.

Reviewer 3: head

Author: updated

> 2. Not override the initial {{cssxref(":root")}} `font-size` with an absolute length value like `16px`.

Reviewer 3: the first three bullets repeat what was said above, so we can get rid of "recommended usage" and steps 1 to 3, and keep 4,

Author: I think this is still useful as a clear summary of what you should do, in easy-to-follow steps. After all, the topic is a bit confusing.

I've therefore kept all the bullets, but updated the preceding line to "To summarize, recommended usage is to:"

3. Use only font-relative units such as `em`/`rem` or keywords such as `small`, `x-large`, etc. to size content.

> 4. Not use the [`env(preferred-text-scale)`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Reference/Values/env#preferred-text-scale) environment variable to size dimensions. This has similar effects, but the `<meta>` tag is easier to use, and also has some helpful effects on desktop browsers (`env(preferred-text-scale)` only really has any useful effect on mobile browsers).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
> [!NOTE]
> Prefer to declare the text-scale `<meta>` over the [`env(preferred-text-scale)`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Reference/Values/env#preferred-text-scale) environment variable. While they have similar effects, the `<meta>` tag is global and can be beneficial on desktop browsers, while (`env(preferred-text-scale)` is declaration-specific with effects limited to mobile browsers.
```

Reviewer: `env(preferred-text-scale)` CAN be used on desktop browsers too, but we suspect not many authors will want/need to. (my point being that "effects limited to mobile browsers" is incorrect)

E.g.
```html
<meta name="text-scale" content="scale" /> <!-- required for env(preferred-text-scale) to be anything other than '1' on desktop -->
<style>
:root {
  /* For some reason, the author wants `rem` to ignore the user's preferred text size */
  font-size: 20px;
}
div {
  width: calc(100px * env(preferred-text-scale));
  height: calc(100px * env(preferred-text-scale));
}
</style>
<div>
  But the author DOES want this square to be
  proportional to the user's font size.
</div>
```

Reviewer: This example DOES deviate from our suggested usage (only size content using `(r)em`...) but it will have an effect on desktop.

Author: I've used some of @estelle's suggestions, as there is good stuff here. However:

- I've kept the "`env(preferred-text-scale)` only really has any useful effect on mobile browsers" part, as it was phrased carefully for the reasons @davidsgrogan points out.
- I've moved the comparison with `env(preferred-text-scale)` out into its own section at the bottom of the "Description" section. This makes the recommended usage simpler — we don't need to include it as part of that.

   > [!WARNING]

>    > Using both these features together should be done with caution as it may result in text scaling being applied twice. For example, when setting `<meta name="text-scale">` on the page and then combining `em` or `rem` with `env(preferred-text-scale)` — `font-size: calc(2rem * env(preferred-text-scale))` — you will end up with small font sizes being smaller and large font sizes being larger. This won't be a problem when multiplying by an absolute length (for example, `px`), which isn't relative to the document's initial font size — for example `font-size: calc(32px * env(preferred-text-scale))`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   > [!WARNING]
   > Avoid using the `preferred-text-scale` environment variable when the `<meta name="text-scale">` is set, as the combination, such as setting `font-size: calc(2rem * env(preferred-text-scale))` in a text-scaled document, will lead to small font sizes being smaller and large font sizes being larger.
```
only need to explain the effect of absolute values with env() on the env() page.

Author: Removed

> This recommended usage allows you to signal to the browser that the page is sized in a way that will scale well across various user-selected font size preferences. It also causes the browser to disable existing browser-based mechanisms and heuristics.

Reviewer 3: The first part:
`Usage signals to the browser that the page is sized in a way that will scale well across various user-selected font size preferences.`
should be added to the start of the description.

The latter part needs to be written in more understandable, preferably lay terms.

Author: OK, I've rearranged the "Description" section to put this nice prose up the top, and a few other bits of reordering besides. Let me know what you think.

For example:

- In Chrome for Android, `rem` and `em` font sizes will scale in proportion to the global OS "Font size" setting. Text autosizing is disabled.
- In Chrome for desktop, the [`env(preferred-text-scale)`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Reference/Values/env#preferred-text-scale) environment variable will reflect the multiplier that corresponds to Chrome's Settings > Appearance > Font size, but other than that, it has no discernable effect.
- The `<meta name="text-scale" content="scale">` element also has other effects in Android Webview: see https://chromium.googlesource.com/chromium/src/+/b29d63222d10f4c7e620d057578d737969eb7ae3.

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For example, in some browser and operating system combinations, font sizes will scale in proportion to the global OS font-size settings, disabling text autosizing. In others, the `scale` value has the effect of making the `preferred-text-scale` environment variable reflect the multiplier that corresponds to the browser's font size settings as the only discernible effect.
```
Then add other effects from the webview without mentioning a browser. 

Always future proof content by being generic (os/browser agnostic). Avoid use of "in supported browsers.

Reviewer 2: Might be difficult to avoid being browser-specific in this case, because only Android's webview has the quirk around overriding the document's text size when the document's text-scale is in 'legacy' mode.

Author: This has been rearranged significantly. I have future-proofed by using "Known effects include:" at the top of this bulleted list. I don't want to cover the WebView effects in detail, as they are not really web-specific, but I still thought the link would be useful to include

## Examples

### Using meta viewport text-scale

> The following example demonstrates the basics of using `<meta name="text-scale" content="scale">`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This example demonstrates the basics of using `<meta name="text-scale" content="scale">`.
```

## Usage notes

A `<meta name="text-scale">` element has the following additional attributes:

- [`content`](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Reference/Elements/meta#content)
  - : Specifies the {{cssxref("font-size")}} scale opt-in behavior.
    Its value is a keyword, which can be one of the following:
    - `scale`
      - : Opts the page in to having the {{htmlelement("html")}} root element's initial {{cssxref("font-size")}} scale in proportion to OS and browser-level text scale settings. It also causes the browser to disable existing browser-based mechanisms and heuristics (for example, text autosizing on mobile).
    - `legacy`
      - : The default value. The page is not opted in to the root element's `font-size` scaling in proportion to OS and browser-level text scale settings. This has the same effect as not including the `<meta>` element at all (OS-level font preferences are ignored.)

## Description

> The `<meta name="text-scale">` element can be included in a document's {{htmlelement("head")}} to signal to the browser that the page is sized in a way that will scale well across various user-selected font size preferences, and causes it to disable existing browser-based mechanisms and heuristics.

Reviewer 3: not sure how to suggest the fix... maybe 

```suggestion
The `<meta name="text-scale">` element can be included in a document's {{htmlelement("head")}} to signal to the browser that the page is sized in a way that will scale well across various user-selected font size preferences; it also disables existing browser-based mechanisms and heuristics.
```

> The `<meta name="text-scale">` element makes the {{htmlelement("html")}} root element's initial `font-size` scale in proportion to OS and browser-level text scale settings; specifically, it defines the value of `font-size: medium` to be proportional to these text scale settings.

Reviewer 3: Defining legacy will help users understand the point of text-scale, and this meta. how about something like:

```suggestion
By default, `medium` is `16px` on most desktop devices, while on mobile it is generally `16px` multiplied by the user’s OS-level font factor. This is because the `preferred-text-scale` environment variable returns the user’s OS-level font factor on mobile devices, but `1` on desktop devices. The text scale factor incorporates font preferences set in the browser, while OS-level font preferences are ignored.

The `<meta name="text-scale">` element fixes these discrepancies, making the {{htmlelement("html")}} root element's initial `font-size` scale in proportion to OS and browser-level text scale settings by defining the value of `font-size: medium` to be proportional to these text scale settings.
```

Reviewer: > By default, `medium` is `16px` on most desktop devices, while on mobile it is generally `16px` multiplied by the user’s OS-level font factor.

I think the quoted part describes legacy. If so, it is inaccurate. In legacy:

On mobile, medium is always 16px. On desktop, medium is 16px except when the user changes it. (The user can change it at chrome://settings/fonts or in firefox at about:preferences or in safari at... I can't find it in Safari. Maybe this setting doesn't exist in Safari.)

Author: Which means that my original text is correct? The point is that we use this feature to cause font-relative dimensions to size in proportion to OS-level font size settings when rendered on mobile.

Reviewer: Yeah, I thinnk your original ttext is accurate.

The {{cssxref("initial")}} value of the root {{cssxref("font-size")}} is `medium`, which defines the {{cssxref("rem")}} unit's value. Provided you set or allow the root `font-size` to default to a [local or root-relative `<length>`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Guides/Values_and_units/Numeric_data_types#local_font-relative_lengths) unit, any keyword (like `medium`) or local or root-relative length, such a `em` and `rem`, will be scaled in proportion to user OS or browser font size settings.

For example, with `<meta name="text-scale" content="scale">` included on the page, the following rule:

```css
p {
  font-size: medium;

> }

Reviewer 3: optional: this is what I meant  (you don't need to make this edit)

```suggestion
}
div {
  font-size: initial;
}
```

```

> would result in all {{htmlelement("p")}} elements receiving a scaled font size. You could also set `font-size` to `initial` to get the same effect.

Reviewer 3: This is what i meant (you don't need to make this edit)

```suggestion
would result in all {{htmlelement("p")}} and {{htmlelement("div")}} elements receiving a scaled font size.
```

Known effects include:

> - In Chrome for Android, `rem` and `em` font sizes will scale in proportion to the global OS "Font size" setting. Text autosizing is disabled.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```
Isn't the first sentence what legacy does? and is unchanged with this meta? Removing because that is stated in the description, 
What is text auto-sizing? Do you mean it sets `text-size-adjust: none`? If yes, say that as part of the description (not just for chrome, but as another way to handle this. And add something to the `text-size-adjust` page.

Reviewer: text auto-sizing is briefly explained at [mdn text autosizing sentence](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Reference/Properties/text-size-adjust#:~:text=many%20mobile%20browsers%20apply%20a%20text%20inflation%20algorithm%20to%20enlarge%20the%20text%20to%20make%20it%20more%20readable) and in much more detail at [Chrome auto sizing design doc](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1PPcEwAhXJJ1TQShor29KWB17KJJq7UJOM34oHwYP3Zg/edit?tab=t.0#heading=h.kzw6s3kvr392)

But, as of a few months ago, Chrome removed its autosizer. These days, `text-size-adjust: none` on Chrome is the same as `text-size-adjust: auto`.

> Do you mean it sets text-size-adjust: none?

Yes, effectively. But the author can still set `text-size-adjust` to a valid value.

Reviewer: > >  - In Chrome for Android, `rem` and `em` font sizes will scale in proportion to the global OS "Font size" setting. Text autosizing is disabled.

>  Isn't the first sentence what legacy does? and is unchanged with this meta?

Nope, that's a change with `meta`. And by default, it is true. But if the author does `:root { font-size: 20px; }` (or any fixed size), then `rem` _won't_ change in proportion to the global OS "Font size" setting. So removing this sentence is maybe indeed the way to go.

What `meta` does under the hood is change `medium` to incorporate the OS-level font preference (on Android only at the moment, but we hope to make this statement true on Windows soon), which in turn changes the other font size keywords (because they are defined relative to `medium`), AND changes the default root font size (because it is defined to be `medium`).

I'm sure a lot of my comments are confusing. If I appear to contradict myself across comments, please feel free to point out and I'll try to clarify. This space is SO intricate and confusing, pdr and I STILL confuse each other over behavior changes even though we spent a year working on this project together.

Author: I'm pretty confused by all this and unsure what I need to change. Do I need to delete "Text autosizing is disabled.", or change it to "The `text-size-adjust` property is set to `none`"?

And then maybe add something to the `text-size-adjust` page to say that it is set to none when `<meta name="text-scale">` is set in the head of the page?

- In Chrome for desktop, the [`env(preferred-text-scale)`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Reference/Values/env#preferred-text-scale) environment variable will reflect the multiplier that corresponds to Chrome's Settings > Appearance > Font size, but other than that, it has no discernable effect.

> - The `<meta name="text-scale" content="scale">` element also has other effects in Android WebView: see https://chromium.googlesource.com/chromium/src/+/b29d63222d10f4c7e620d057578d737969eb7ae3.

Reviewer 3: Please remove all references to browsers and browser / operating system combos . This section can be incorporated into the rest of the description, with the webview link being in the "see also" section

Author: OK, I've replaced this with a more generic paragraph about effects on mobile and desktop. I've also cut down some of the earlier description as it was a bit repetitive.

### Usage summary

To summarize, recommended usage is to:

1. Include `<meta name="text-scale" content="scale" />` in the `<head>` of your page.

> 2. Not override the initial {{cssxref(":root")}} `font-size` with an absolute length value like `16px`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
2. Don't override the initial {{cssxref(":root")}} `font-size` with an absolute length value like `16px`.
```

3. Use only font-relative units such as `em`/`rem` or keywords such as `small`, `x-large`, etc. to size content.

### `<meta name="text-scale">` versus `env(preferred-text-scale)`

You should prefer to use `<meta name="text-scale" />` to size dimensions relative to OS text scale settings rather than the [`env(preferred-text-scale)`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Reference/Values/env#preferred-text-scale) environment variable. While they have similar effects, the `<meta>` tag is easier to use, and also has some helpful effects on desktop browsers (`env(preferred-text-scale)` only really has any useful effect on mobile browsers).

Avoid using both these features together as it may result in text scaling being applied twice. For example, when setting `<meta name="text-scale">` on the page and then combining `em` or `rem` with `env(preferred-text-scale)`, for example:

```css
font-size: calc(2rem * env(preferred-text-scale));
```

you will end up with small font sizes being smaller and large font sizes being larger.

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Using `<meta name="text-scale" />` to size dimensions relative to OS text scale settings is recommended over the [`env(preferred-text-scale)`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Reference/Values/env#preferred-text-scale) environment variable. They have similar effects on mobile, but `<meta>` also provides improvements for desktop browsers (and is easier to use).

Avoid using both features together, as text scaling may be applied twice, making small font-relative dimensions smaller and large font-relative dimensions larger.
```
If preferred-text-scale is 1.5, the example was true. But a preferred text scale is unlikely to be less than 0.5.. In this scenario, 0.5 or greater will not lead to smaller text.

```html live-sample___text-scale
<!doctype html>
<html>
  <head>
    <meta name="text-scale" content="scale" />
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1" />
  </head>
  <body>
    <p class="text-scale">
      This font size obeys the user's font preferences, whether those
      preferences are specified at the operating system level or the user agent
      level.
    </p>
    <p class="fixed">
      This font size does NOT respect the user's font preferences.
      <div class="text-scale">But this font size does!</div>
    </p>
  </body>
</html>
```

#### CSS

Text containers with a `class` of `text-scale` are given a {{cssxref("font-size")}} of `1rem`, which means that in browsers that support `<meta name="text-scale" content="scale">`, that text will scale as the OS/browser font settings are changed. Text containers with a `class` of `fixed` are given a `font-size` of `20px`, which means that this text will remain at a fixed size as the OS/browser font settings are changed.

```css live-sample___text-scale
.text-scale {
  font-size: 1rem;
}

.fixed {
  font-size: 20px;
}
```

#### Result

{{embedlivesample("text-scale", "100%", "200")}}

> Test this in a supporting browser. For example, load it in Chrome for Android and try adjusting the OS Font size settings. You can open the demo in a separate tab using the link below to make testing easier:

Reviewer 3: I don't think your edits took.

Author: ? The examples seem to contain the expected content.

Reviewer 3: The removal of mentions of "support" and individual browsers

Author: Ah, I missed a couple of Android mentions. Removed now.

{{ LiveSampleLink("text-scale", "Open the example in a separate tab") }}

> You'll see that the top and bottom lines of text scale in proportion to the OS settings, whereas the middle line of text doesn't change size.

Reviewer 3: The other pages just have a basic usage example. Let's go with that. The example just shows that absolute sizes aren't responsive, which is a whole other topic , which would be good to address, but that isn't really addressed in this page. If we do , let's update all the best practices, font-size, etc. pages.

```suggestion
### Using `text-scale` keyword

The following example uses  the `scale` value to request that the text scale factor incorporates both browser and operating system font preferences:

```html
<meta name="text-scale" content="scale" />
```

Author: Ummmm, inconsistency with other pages is not a reason to remove useful examples from the page. I don't want to remove this example from the page.

Author: We can improve other pages incrementally.

Author: I've adjusted the wording in the example to say that it demonstrates the effect of the meta tag, rather than necessarily showing how to use it.

---
title: <meta name="text-scale">
short-title: text-scale
slug: Web/HTML/Reference/Elements/meta/name/text-scale
page-type: html-attribute-value
browser-compat: html.elements.meta.name.text-scale
sidebar: htmlsidebar
---

The **`text-scale`** value for the [`name`](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Reference/Elements/meta/name) attribute of a {{htmlelement("meta")}} element enables opting the page in to having the {{htmlelement("html")}} root element's initial {{cssxref("font-size")}} scale in proportion to OS and browser-level text scale settings.

## Usage notes

A `<meta name="text-scale">` element has the following additional attributes:

- [`content`](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Reference/Elements/meta#content)
  - : Specifies the {{cssxref("font-size")}} scale opt-in behavior.
    Its value is a keyword, which can be one of the following:
    - `scale`

>       - : Opts the page in to having the {{htmlelement("html")}} root element's initial {{cssxref("font-size")}} scale in proportion to OS and browser-level text scale settings. It also causes the browser to disable existing browser-based mechanisms and heuristics (for example, text autosizing on mobile).

Reviewer 4: We should include inline here in bold that if you turn on this setting, you must test your website to make sure it supports text sizes up to XXX (where XXX is the maximum user-settable font size scaling factor on any of our platform text size sliders, including any accessibility options), even on small screens (e.g. iPhone mini).

Reviewer 4: Like make it really easy and obvious to know what you need to test to avoid broken pages, and make it unmissable information.

Reviewer 2: For example, these are the maximum user-settable font size scaling factor on the major OSs:

* on macOS 26, the maximum is 350%
* on Windows 11, the maximum is 225%
* on Android (Google Pixel 7a), the maximum is 200%

I don't have access to an iOS device, so I wasn't able to test that. [A user on Stack Overflow thinks it's 310%](https://stackoverflow.com/a/75726974), but I think it's possible to do even larger sizes. It could be different on iPadOS.

And that's just the OSs. Desktop browsers can do even larger. Chromium browsers and Firefox can do 450%. Safari on macOS is almost 300%.

@fantasai I wonder, then, if we should recommend testing up to 300% on mobile and 400% on desktop?

@chrisdavidmills, to give a bit of context behind where this has come from, we want to ensure two things:
 
1. Authors don't use the meta tag unless they _definitely_ are sure their website is ready to support text scaling
2. Authors don't simply read [WCAG guideline 1.4.4](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG21/Understanding/resize-text.html) and assume they only need to test that their website supports up to 200% text scaling. It doesn't change the fact that some users need much more.

Author: Cheers for this, folks. I've added a warning box at the top of the page, just under the intro, like so:

> [!WARNING]
> If you include `<meta name="text-scale" content="scale" />` on your website to opt in to this text scaling behavior, you must test to make sure it supports text sizes up to the maximum text-scaling factors for your target platforms. For example, Android can scale text up to 200%, while iPhones can scale text up to 310%. Some accessibility features may enable even larger text scaling. You should make sure your website does not look broken at higher zoom levels.

Does that work?

Reviewer 2: Yes, for now I think that's great, thank you. In the future, the CSSWG or WAI might give more specific advice on what text scales to test on, so device specific advice seems good for now. 👍🏼 

However, I'm not confident about the 310% for iOS determined by the Stack Overflow user. It's probably going to be something like that, but I'm not fully confident without knowing the methodology they used to work it out. It would be really helpful if an iOS developer or device owner could advise us here. I've just checked the [Apple HCI's dynamic type spec](https://developer.apple.com/design/human-interface-guidelines/typography#iOS-iPadOS-Dynamic-Type-sizes), which does corroborate that it's 310%, so I think we can stick with it for now.

Author: Yeah, we can always expand the advice later on as newer information becomes available.

Reviewer 3: i assume we're not going to remember to revisit this note, so made a suggestion to make the note a bit more generic.

    - `legacy`
      - : The default value. The page is not opted in to the root element's `font-size` scaling in proportion to OS and browser-level text scale settings. This has the same effect as not including the `<meta>` element at all (OS-level font preferences are ignored.)

## Description

The `<meta name="text-scale">` element can be included in a document's {{htmlelement("head")}} to signal to the browser that the page is sized in a way that will scale well across various user-selected font size preferences; it also disables existing browser-based mechanisms and heuristics.

> Specifically, it defines the value of the {{htmlelement("html")}} root element's initial `font-size` to scale in proportion to user-defined OS and browser-level font size settings. The {{cssxref("initial")}} value of the root {{cssxref("font-size")}} is `medium`, which defines the [`rem`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Reference/Values/length#rem) unit's value. Provided you set or allow the root `font-size` to default to a [local or root-relative `<length>`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Guides/Values_and_units/Numeric_data_types#local_font-relative_lengths) unit, any keyword (like `medium`) or local or root-relative length (such as `em` and `rem`) will be scaled in proportion to OS or browser font size settings.

Reviewer: Looks like the double "local or root-relative" was not intended to be duplicated in this sentence?

Author: I think it was intended like that — one refers to what's being set as the root font size, and one refers to subsequent sizes set after that — but it sounds like a duplicate.

To mitigate this issue, I've changed the wording to make it not sound like a duplicate:

> Provided you set or allow the root `font-size` to default to a [local or root font-relative `<length>`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Guides/Values_and_units/Numeric_data_types#local_font-relative_lengths) unit, any subsequent keyword (like `medium`) or font-relative length (such as `em` and `rem`) will be scaled in proportion to OS or browser font size settings.

We include the `<meta name="text-scale" content="scale">` element in the document `<head>`, plus a [`<meta name="viewport">`](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Reference/Elements/meta/name/viewport) element to ensure correct display on mobile devices. We also include some text content inside {{htmlelement("p")}} elements with different `class` attributes set on them to allow us to target them with different styles.

```html live-sample___text-scale
<!doctype html>
<html>
  <head>
    <meta name="text-scale" content="scale" />
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1" />
  </head>
  <body>
    <p class="text-scale">
      This font size obeys the user's font preferences, whether those
      preferences are specified at the operating system level or the user agent
      level.
    </p>
    <p class="fixed">
      This font size does NOT respect the user's font preferences.
      <div class="text-scale">But this font size does!</div>
    </p>
  </body>
</html>
```

```html hidden live-sample___no-text-scale
<!doctype html>
<html>
  <head>
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1" />
  </head>
  <body>
    <p class="text-scale">

>       This font size obeys the user's font preferences, whether those

Reviewer 3: make the text relevant to the two views.

Author: done

      preferences are specified at the operating system level or the user agent
      level.
    </p>
    <p class="fixed">

>       This font size does NOT respect the user's font preferences.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
      This font size does NOT respect the user's font preferences, even if text-scale is set.
```
or something like that.

Author: done

      <div class="text-scale">But this font size does!</div>
    </p>
  </body>
</html>
```

#### CSS

Text containers with a `class` of `text-scale` are given a {{cssxref("font-size")}} of `1rem`, which means that in browsers that support `<meta name="text-scale" content="scale">`, that text will scale as the OS/browser font settings are changed. Text containers with a `class` of `fixed` are given a `font-size` of `20px`, which means that this text will remain at a fixed size as the OS/browser font settings are changed.

```css live-sample___text-scale live-sample___no-text-scale
.text-scale {
  font-size: 1rem;
}

.fixed {
  font-size: 20px;
}
```

> 

Reviewer 3: let's make the meta visible
```suggestion

```css hidden live-sample___text-scale live-sample___no-text-scale
head,
[name="text-scale"] {
  display: block;
  background-color: #dedede;
  font-family: monospace;
  }
 head * {
   display: none;
}
```end
```

That way, readers can see which one has the meta

Author: This doesn't seem to do anything. As an alternative solution, I've updated the text so that there is a descriptive line before each live example stating which one has the meta, and which one doesn't.

#### Result

The following shows the live rendered example, followed by another version without the `<meta name="text-scale">` element:

{{embedlivesample("text-scale", "100%", "200")}}

{{embedlivesample("no-text-scale", "100%", "200")}}

> Test these examples in a supporting mobile browser and try adjusting the OS font size settings. To make testing easier, you can open both versions full screen in a separate tab using the links below:

Reviewer 3: removed "supporting" because we're not going to remember to remove it.
added instructions on how to update font size (i think they're always under a11y... not sure)
moved paragraph from below up.

```suggestion
Test these examples in a mobile browser. Change the preferred font size in the mobile device's accessibility settings. Note how, in the first example, when `scale` is set, the top and bottom lines of text scale in proportion to the OS settings, whereas the middle line of text doesn't change size. Without the `<meta name="text-scale">` element, none of the text scales in proportion to the OS settings.

To make testing easier, you can open both versions full screen in a separate tab using the links below:
```

same suggestions for the other example on the page.

Author: done

Author: Also done on the other example.

- {{ LiveSampleLink("text-scale", "The first example") }}

> - {{ LiveSampleLink("no-text-scale", "The second example (without <code>&lt;meta name=&quot;text-scale&quot;&gt;</code>)") }}

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- {{ LiveSampleLink("text-scale", "Example with <code>&lt;meta name=&quot;text-scale&quot;&gt;</code>") }}
- {{ LiveSampleLink("no-text-scale", "Example without <code>&lt;meta name=&quot;text-scale&quot;&gt;</code>") }}
```

Author: updated

> In the first version of the example, you'll see that the top and bottom lines of text scale in proportion to the OS settings, whereas the middle line of text doesn't change size. In the second version of the example without the `<meta name="text-scale">` element, none of the lines of text scale in proportion to the OS settings.

Reviewer 3: moved up (and edited)

```suggestion
```

Author: done

### A text-scale-responsive layout

> The following example demonstrates that with `<meta name="text-scale">` applied to a page, font-relative sizes can be used inside {{cssxref("@media")}} queries to cause supporting browsers to automatically adjust breakpoints as the OS text size is changed.

Reviewer 3: "This" example.
~~supporting~~ (maybe replace with mobile)
This is already true when you zoom on desktop. Is this a new mobile feature?.

Author: updated, and updated.

#### HTML

Like the previous example, our markup again includes the `<meta name="text-scale">` and `<meta name="viewport">` elements in the `<head>`. In this demo, the body content contains two elements — {{htmlelement("main")}} and {{htmlelement("aside")}} — to represent a main content column and a sidebar.

```html live-sample___text-scale-layout
<!doctype html>
<html>
  <head>
    <meta name="text-scale" content="scale" />
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1" />
  </head>
  <body>
    <main>Main content</main>
    <aside>Aside content</aside>
  </body>
</html>
```

#### CSS

We set our body element to have a {{cssxref("display")}} of `grid` and give the grid a {{cssxref("gap")}} of `24px`. By default, the main content and sidebar are laid out one below the other.

> We then include a {{cssxref("@media")}} query that lays the elements out side-by-side via {{cssxref("grid-template-columns")}} when the viewport becomes wider than `40rem`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
By default, the main content and sidebar are laid out one below the other. We include a {{cssxref("@media")}} query that sets our body element to have a {{cssxref("display")}} of `grid` and give the grid a {{cssxref("gap")}} of `24px`, laying the elements out side-by-side via {{cssxref("grid-template-columns")}} when the viewport becomes wider than `40rem`. 
```
if you move the body block into the media query

Author: I've written my own simpler description; I didn't think this much detail was needed.

```css live-sample___text-scale-layout
body {
  display: grid;

>   gap: 24px;

Reviewer 3: move these two into the media block, then you can simplify the instructions introducing it.

Author: done, simplified.

  margin: 0;
}

main,
aside {
  background-color: silver;
  padding: 24px;
  font-size: 1.5rem;
}

> @media (width > 40rem) {

Reviewer 3: On an average phone, the screen is less than 40rem even when the font is at the default 16px, so this is not hit (40* 16px = 640px, but the max width of the iframe is 600px i think.) The fontsize would have to be set to less than 15px (the user would have to have set their font size down by > 1px) to have this media query match.

Author: Changed `40rem` to `35rem`, and added a note about viewing it in landscape.

---
title: <meta name="text-scale">
short-title: text-scale
slug: Web/HTML/Reference/Elements/meta/name/text-scale
page-type: html-attribute-value
browser-compat: html.elements.meta.name.text-scale
sidebar: htmlsidebar
---

The **`text-scale`** value for the [`name`](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Reference/Elements/meta/name) attribute of a {{htmlelement("meta")}} element enables opting the page in to having the {{htmlelement("html")}} root element's initial {{cssxref("font-size")}} scale in proportion to OS and browser-level text scale settings.

> [!WARNING]

> > If you include `<meta name="text-scale" content="scale" />` on your website to opt in to this text scaling behavior, you must test to make sure it supports text sizes up to the maximum text-scaling factors for your target platforms. For example, Android can scale text up to 200%, while iPhones can scale text up to 310%. Some accessibility features may enable even larger text scaling. You should make sure your website does not look broken at higher zoom levels.

Reviewer 3: the warning is needed because generally everything is zoomed, not just the text. i think we should mention that, while avoiding using "zoom", as people will be confused as to normal zooming versus text-only scaling. Started with this... which isn't perfect...
suggest pulling out specifics as Android and Apple might change these values, and we're not going to remember to update this.

```suggestion
> If you include `<meta name="text-scale" content="scale" />` on your website to opt in to this text scaling behavior, you must test that it supports text sizes up to the maximum text-scaling factor for your target platforms. This typically ranges from 200% to over 300% on mobile platforms, with some accessibility features enabling even larger text scaling. Make sure your website does not look broken for users setting larger or smaller operating system font-size preferences.
```

Author: The generic-ness is OK, but I've edited your edit to tighten up the grammar a bit and remove some of the detail that was making it a bit wordy and hard to parse. We explain all the detail in the rest of the page, so I think we can go a bit lighter here.

For example, with `<meta name="text-scale" content="scale">` included on the page, the following rule:

```css
p {
  font-size: medium;
}
```

would result in all {{htmlelement("p")}} elements receiving a scaled font size. You could also set `font-size` to `initial` to get the same effect.

On mobile platforms, this is not the case by default. `<meta name="text-scale" content="scale" />` enables this scaling. On desktop platforms, the effect is that the [`env(preferred-text-scale)`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Reference/Values/env#preferred-text-scale) environment variable is made to reflect the multiplier that corresponds to browser font size settings, but other than that, it has no discernable advantage.

### Usage summary

> To summarize, recommended usage is to:

Reviewer 3: I thought Elika was recommending we don't recommend using meta until a developer is certain their site will work everywhere, so maybe...

```suggestion
To summarize, set `scale` only if your app is designed to support font scaling. Recommended usage is to:
```

1. Include `<meta name="text-scale" content="scale" />` in the `<head>` of your page.

> 2. Don't override the initial {{cssxref(":root")}} `font-size` with an absolute length value like `16px`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
2. Don't override the initial {{cssxref(":root")}} `font-size` with an [absolute length](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Reference/Values/length#absolute_length_units) value (like `16px`).
```

> 3. Use only font-relative units such as `em`/`rem` or keywords such as `small`, `x-large`, etc. to size content.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
3. Use only [font-relative units](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Reference/Values/length#relative_length_units_based_on_font) such as `em`/`rem` or keywords such as `small`, `x-large`, etc. to size content.
```

    </p>
  </body>
</html>
```

```html hidden live-sample___no-text-scale
<!doctype html>
<html>
  <head>
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1" />
  </head>
  <body>
    <p class="text-scale">
      This font size does not obey the user's font preferences, whether those
      preferences are specified at the operating system level or the user agent
      level.
    </p>
    <p class="fixed">
      This font size does NOT respect the user's font preferences.
      <div class="text-scale">Neither does this!</div>
    </p>
  </body>
</html>
```

#### CSS

Text containers with a `class` of `text-scale` are given a {{cssxref("font-size")}} of `1rem`, which means that in browsers that support `<meta name="text-scale" content="scale">`, that text will scale as the OS/browser font settings are changed. Text containers with a `class` of `fixed` are given a `font-size` of `20px`, which means that this text will remain at a fixed size as the OS/browser font settings are changed.

```css live-sample___text-scale live-sample___no-text-scale
.text-scale {
  font-size: 1rem;
}

.fixed {
  font-size: 20px;
}
```

#### Result

> The following shows the live rendered example with the `<meta name="text-scale">` element included:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This version has the `<meta name="text-scale">` element included:
```
so the two sentences match, and so there is no confusion as to what "following" means.

{{embedlivesample("text-scale", "100%", "200")}}

> This version doesn't have the `<meta name="text-scale">` element included:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This version does NOT have the `<meta name="text-scale">` element included:
```

{{embedlivesample("no-text-scale", "100%", "200")}}

> Test these examples in a mobile browser. Change the preferred font size in the mobile device's accessibility settings. Note how, in the first example, when `<meta name="text-scale">` is included, the top and bottom lines of text scale in proportion to the OS settings, whereas the middle line of text doesn't change size. Without the `<meta name="text-scale">` element, none of the text scales in proportion to the OS settings.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Test these examples in a mobile browser. Change the preferred font size in the mobile device's display or accessibility settings. Note how, in the first example, when `<meta name="text-scale">` is included, the top and bottom lines of text scale in proportion to the OS settings, whereas the middle line, with the `font-size` set using absolute units, doesn't change size. Without the `<meta name="text-scale">` element, text does not scale proportionally with OS settings.
```

  </head>
  <body>
    <main>Main content</main>
    <aside>Aside content</aside>
  </body>
</html>
```

#### CSS

By default, the main content and sidebar are laid out one below the other. We include a {{cssxref("@media")}} query that lays the elements out side-by-side using [CSS Grid](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Guides/Grid_layout) when the viewport becomes wider than `35rem`.

```css hidden live-sample___text-scale-layout
body {
  margin: 0;
}

main,
aside {
  background-color: silver;
  padding: 24px;
  font-size: 1.5rem;
}
```

```css live-sample___text-scale-layout
@media (width > 35rem) {
  body {
    display: grid;
    gap: 24px;
    grid-template-columns: 1fr 18.75rem;
  }
}
```

#### Result

{{embedlivesample("text-scale-layout", "100%", "200")}}

Test this in a mobile browser. You'll see that, as the OS font size is increased, the breakpoint size increases in proportion to it. At larger OS font sizes, the main and aside will start to appear on top of each other whereas previously they appeared side-by-side. You may have to look at it in landscape orientation to see the effect.

You can open the demo in a separate tab using the link below to make testing easier:

> {{ LiveSampleLink("text-scale-layout", "Open the example in a separate tab") }}

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
{{ LiveSampleLink("text-scale-layout", "Responsive layout example") }}
```
To differentiate which example it is and to not repeat the text from the previous line.

.fixed {
  font-size: 20px;
}

@media (width < 600px) {
  .text-scale {
    font-size: 1.5rem;
  }

  .fixed {
    font-size: 30px;
  }

> }

Reviewer 2: The example I had in mind here was more for a layout. For example, if you're making a sidebar like so, then the breakpoint where the sidebar can appear changes based on the text scale, because we're using `em`/`rem` units in the media query.

```css
.sidebar-layout {
  display: grid;
  gap: 24px;
}

@media (width > 40rem) {
  .sidebar-layout {
    grid-template-columns: 1fr 18.75rem;
  }
}
```

vs

```css
.sidebar-layout {
  display: grid;
  gap: 24px;
}

@media (width > 640px) {
  .sidebar-layout {
    grid-template-columns: 1fr 300px;
  }
}
```

Author: @JoshTumath Oh, ok, I get it. I've updated the Examples section to keep the first example basic (no media query), and add a separate second example to cover the media queries stuff. Let me know what you think.
